---
layout: post
title: Day 8
categories: [100daysofcode, node, javascript]
tags: [100daysofcode, node, javascript, weatherapp, callback, snippets]
fullview: true
comments: true

---

## Today's Progress
I have progressed further with the Node.JS weather app.  I even rebuilt it from scratch to reinforce what I had learned.


## Thoughts

---

## Today's Progress
I have progressed further with the Node.JS weather app.  I even rebuilt it from scratch to reinforce.


## Thoughts
I was beginning to feel overwhelmed with what I had learned regarding Node.JS, and I felt like I wasn't getting it and it wasn't very enjoyable.  As per [@RonJonBraun's tweet](https://twitter.com/RonJonBraun/status/989922649789861889) I decided to rewrite the weather app from scratch, without referring back to the code and without watching the tutorial for help.

At first, I did feel like I was lost, and I'll admit I did cheat by peeking at my previous code to figure out how to use the node [request](https://www.npmjs.com/package/request) package or how to set up the methods on the [yargs](https://www.npmjs.com/package/yargs) package.

I got the flow of things but when I got to calling geocodeAddress(), I recall not understanding how to use the callback() function.

``` javascript
geocode.geocodeAddress(argv.address, (errorMessage, results) => {
  if (errorMessage) {
    console.log(errorMessage);
  } else {
    console.log(results.address)
```

Where the heck does errorMessage and results come from?
How does it differentiate between the two?

The answer, as I discovered, was this:

``` javascript
if (error) {
  callback('Unable to connect to Google Servers');
} else if (body.status === 'ZERO_RESULTS') {
  callback('Unable to find that address');
} else if (body.status === 'OK') {
  callback(undefined, {
    address: body.results[0].formatted_address,
    latitude: body.results[0].geometry.location.lat,
    longitude: body.results[0].geometry.location.lng
  });
}
```

Thinking of the callback() arguments in the previous snippet, the first argument was 'errorMessage'.  In this case, 'errorMessage' would be 'Unable to connect to Google Servers' or 'Unable to find that address', completely omitting the second argument.

'results' would be, callback('undefined', Object), declaring 'errorMessage' as undefined and passing in the address, longitude, and latitude into the second argument as an object.
